Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, the Senate Appropriations Committee has just
reported out the Public Works Bill.
I've had the privilege as a member of the full committee and a member of the Public Works
Subcommittee, of working for several projects of great interest to our state, from the first
time they came up for consideration.
In the case of one project, the Melton Hill Dam, we were able to have added to the final
bill one million dollars, which will mean that construction on this much-needed dam can
begin next year.
The Melton Hill Dam will be a multipurpose dam providing means of manufacturing hydroelectric
power, flood control and navigation.
General Vogel, the Chairman of the TVA Board, testified before the subcommittee that a power
shortage is expected during the winter of 1962-63.
Well, since the Melton Hill Dam will be located close to the principal user of TVA power,
the Atomic Energy Commission at Oak Ridge.
Its completion just subsequent to that time will grow a long way, total alleviating a potential
weak spot in our national defense.
The project will provide navigation on the clinch river, a tributary of the Tennessee
up to Clinton.
The waters impounded by the Melton Hill Dam will provide new recreational areas for several
hundred thousand persons and the immediate vicinity which includes the city of Knoxville.
In addition, the employment picture in this area will be improved tremendously through
the jobs provided by this project construction.
For the Melton Hill Dam, $200,000 for planning was also included in the appropriation bill.
An item of great interest to those in the Carthage and on the Cumberland River section is $200,000
of new design and engineering money provided for the Cordell Hold Dam.
This money will be used to design navigational locks in this dam which will be built at Carthage.
At another location on the Cumberland River, the $19 million budgeted for the Barclay
Dam was retained by our committee.
While this dam is actually in Kentucky, the waters that impounds will back up well into
Tennessee and provide miles and miles of recreational shoreline and will be important for
navigation.
Looking now to West Tennessee, I'm delighted to be able to report that a total of a half
a million dollars has been provided for flood works and drainage works in this part of
our state.
At Memphis, the Wolf River has been a real problem for many years, flooding and making useless
much good, bottom, farm land and Shelby County for long periods of each year.
About $300,000 has been provided in the bill toward correcting the situation.
What money will be used for engineering to begin the actual work of cutting a new channel
through the Wolf River, far the Wolf River, to the Mississippi River at North Memphis.
Some of this money will also be used for cleaning out the Wolf's Channel Eastward from where
this new channel will be built.
I know the residents of North Memphis and Frazier not to mention those downtown methians
who work downtown will be glad to know that this project will eventually do much to eliminate
the unpleasant odors for which the Wolf has been, sometimes been famous.
And last but not least, certainly not least, I am pleased to report that $200,000 has been
included for the West Tennessee drainage district.
This money will be used to start work on clearing and channel straightening on the Forkard
deer and O'Brien rivers.
This has been a long needed undertake, undertaking.
Thousands of acres of good farm land have been rendered useless or damaged by the floods
on these tributaries of the Mississippi River.
Highways and roads have been completely blocked many times during high water periods.
But it's sum up about $1,000,000 of new monies for these vital Tennessee projects has been
included in the Senate appropriations bill for public works.
These projects will be of great value to the areas which they serve.
And working on these projects, my colleague Senator Gore and I worked together, Melton
Hill Dam is in the District of Congressman Baker and he has certainly been very active.
The Cordeaux Hall of Am is in Congressman Joe Evans District and he has on the appropriations
committee has done much for it.
The West Tennessee drainage district is in Congressman Everett's and the Wolf Harbor District
is in Congressman Davis.
They have all worked very hard for these projects.
Thank you and goodbye in the next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, we in Hamilton County and in Chattanooga are
mighty proud of our county and of our city and they were very fine governments we have,
they very fine progress that we are making in the city of Chattanooga.
We have the honor today of having with us two of our outstanding public officials in
the city of Chattanooga are very great mayor Rudy O'Juddy who is here with the Commissioner
of Macon Turf to see about some important business affecting the people of Chattanooga.
Rudy, will you tell us briefly what took place in Washington and what we were here for?
Sector, we first want to say that we appreciate the courage that you've shown us and to take
out of your business schedule the time to make the appointments that you have made and we
we've been up here primarily interested in the disposition of the volunteer ordinance
plan and the cramet properties that's on the federal government there.
That's causing us a lot of concern for an employment standpoint.
That's right and we did get the agreements that they would survey the situation try to find some use
and perhaps turn some of it over to local authorities for industrial sites in the event it was possible to do so.
Well, good to have you here at Commissioner George Macon Turf and thank you Senator.
It's always good to come to Washington and enjoy your hospitality.
We appreciate the efforts that you have made on behalf of the citizens of Hamilton County and Chattanooga
and we feel that something good will come from this visit here today.
Well, I think so too and of course all of us who live in Chattanooga know of the remarkable developments that are taking place there.
They are far seeing programs inaugurated by these gentlemen but we want the people in the other part of the state
who may be viewing this program to know something about it.
So, Mayor O'Donnell, if you tell us about some of the things that are taking place in Chattanooga now,
let's talk about the highway program first.
We have a great highway program in the city of Chattanooga in an air state system.
We, the Teddy of Truth across the board, we have a hundred million dollar public works program which is highways,
airports, schools, fire protection, sewers and all the things that go along with it.
Railroad relocation and urban renewal and we made a lot of progress.
We have three contracts just about completed. One is completed.
The contract led for two more just this month and we're making good progress in our highway program.
Well, it certainly is evident to see when you go there. Do you want to add anything to that commission to make?
Well, I want to say a word about our urban renewal program.
We're taking a section of Chattanooga composed of more than 400 acres and redeveloping the entire area
and it's going to insert new life into downtown Chattanooga.
It's a very progressive program and we're getting the full cooperation of the entire city in this urban renewal program.
It's going to revitalize downtown Chattanooga.
Well, I agree with you. This urban renewal is one of the best projects of the federal, state and local governments can do together.
Well, Mayor Ojady, I tell us about the airport program. You've done a whole lot with the airport down there.
We have a fine airport Chattanooga but it's like every other airport in the country we have in more air travel and that means more expansion
and we do have a two and a half million dollar expansion program contemplated for our airport.
Well, you've tried to get an appropriation for the federal government to assist in certain areas needed isn't it commission?
It surely is. In Senator, we're concerned about the TBA CF financing bill which just recently passed the same bill.
Well, we all are because Chattanooga is the center of a lot of the TBA activities and we're happy to report the bill passed the Senate in acceptable form.
Not as good as we would like and the House will probably agree to the Senate amendments and will go on to the press to...
I certainly hope the President is going to sign the bill. Well, Mayor Ojady, you want to add anything about the TBA program or the highway program?
Well, we're happy that you've gotten us far along with the TBA CF financing bill as you have and we hope it goes on to the President's signature.
And this highway program, of course the financing has been concerned us very much. I think it's just the mud us that we're going to find.
I agree with you. I'm sorry gentlemen. Thank you very much, Mayor Ojady and Commissioner Mackinter. Until next week, goodbye.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee. I'm a very flattered and honored to have one of my best friends in the Senate with us today.
He's a very popular and able member of the United States Senate from the second largest state in the Union, the state of Texas, Ralph Yarborough.
And thank you very much Ralph for coming and being with me on this program.
Senator Keep offer, thank you for this invitation. This is a real honor to be on this program. More people came to Texas from Tennessee than for many other states.
My grandfather was born in that great volunteer state and of course you represented the Democratic Party in all the states of the Union and we're grateful for the help you've given us in Texas.
Would you speak to us for the Democratic Party?
Well, that's my nice, we're proud of all the Texans who came from Tennessee.
I know that your grandfather was born up in Cumberland County, I think, and lived up there, didn't he Ralph?
Right up somewhere in the northern part, the central part of it, northern Tennessee.
Well, I had the pleasure of being a co-sponsor of a bill that Senator Yarborough took the leadership in and worked through the committee and passed on the floor of the Senate this week, a very important bill called the Cool War GI Bill of Rights.
And I want you to explain about the bill, will you?
First, Senator Keep, offer, thank you for being a co-sponsor and adding your influence and making that very able argument for the bill on the floor of the Senate to help so much in the passage.
This bill is to continue the, basically, the benefits of the Korean War Bill to the veterans of the Cold War.
That is the period since January 1955 until the draft ends in 1963.
And it provides for educational and vocational educational opportunities for these veterans for loans on homes and farms, but it does not have mustering out pay and does not have business loans.
A lot of the veterans organizations felt it shouldn't be as broad as the conflict period.
It's not as broad, but it does carry the educational opportunities.
Well, I think the GI Bill of Rights was one of the best pieces of legislation that Congress passed.
And Tennessee had more than 200,000 young men and women took advantage of it, getting education, also buying a home and buying a farm.
And this extends some of the benefits to those who are serving since 1955, isn't that correct?
As long as they draft runs till 1963, they'll have an opportunity to go to college where they've been in service.
And that's 45% of the young men who are better in this.
How many would be eligible for benefits on this bill?
Four million will be eligible about half will take them.
The experience of World War II and the Korean conflict is that only 50% of the veterans go to school under the bills.
Four million will be eligible. We should have two million more and will raise the educational level of our people with their loans.
I think that about 93,000 will be eligible in the state of Tennessee under this new program.
And I know it'll mean a whole lot to these young men.
Now, Senator Long had an amendment which was adopted to your bill, Senator Yarbal.
Will you tell what that was?
Well, the opposition to the Democratic Party wanted to make this wholly alone program.
Senator Long had a compromised proposal.
At the sub-college level, high school and vocational education is still a grant.
The first year in college will be a grant program.
But if the student falls in the bottom 50% of his class, then it'll have to borrow money.
But if it can raise this grades as long as it stays in the top 50% of his class in college, it will be a grant by the government.
And as I understand this would last for three years as a maximum amount that anybody can get on to the program.
That's correct, Senator. If you keep all of your kids to school, they're in a half-each-day of service, but not over three years of education.
Now, how about the home and farm alone provisions of the bill?
That is to permit them to make direct loans just like the Korean and the World War II veterans to have a direct loan for home or farm, particularly helpful in the rural areas that are sold in the credit for farm homes.
Now, Senator Yarbrough, I want to congratulate you upon the leadership you have finished in presenting this bill and getting it passed in the Senate and certainly good to have you with us.
Thank you for this, I saw. And I'll make sure you help.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, the most serious economic problem facing our nation today is the deadlock between labor and management in the steel industry.
Negotiations, mediation and fact-finding swim around before the public's eye.
In full-page advertisements placed by labor and management, each argues that the other is wrong.
In the midst of this impasse, the public interests flounders and the consumer wonders.
When the smoke is cleared away, well, John Cue public's pocketbook stagger under another blow.
Where the price of paper clips and pots and pans and pumps and pyromores, and everything else, John Cue must buy, clam another rum on the ladder of inflation when the sound and fury have subsided.
Well, why are big steel and the steel workers locked in this gigantic wrestling match, each with an identical hammer lock on the other?
What are the conflicting positions of labor and management, which have produced this desperate draw?
Management rests this case essentially on the assumption that the time has come to hold what it calls inflationary wage increases.
Management also says that it must have higher profits in order to finance the future expansion of the industry.
Labor bases its case largely upon the assumption that the steel companies can easily afford to grant a wage boost without incurring an increase in cost, because of the increase in labor productivity.
Labor also believes profits of the steel companies are excessive and wants to share in these profits.
Labor and management both insist that they have the consumers' interest at heart.
Well, many facts have been produced from the series of administered price hearings before the antitrust and monopoly subcommittee of which I am chairman.
This past week, one of the newest facts to reach the public came in the announcement by the steel companies themselves of their profits for the first half of this year.
Profits after taxes for 14 companies accounting for three-fifths of the industry's capacity, jumped 145 percent over the first half of last year.
The industry leader, United States Steel Corporation, was 28 percent of our steel making capacity, neted $255 million.
This is 88 percent more than the US steel netted for the same period last year.
Well, friends, we are face to face today with a fundamental problem in the steel industry.
In the future, this problem is going to confront us in other industries.
Our public policy always has been toward industry in the past, has been based on the theory of price competition.
If any firm in a competitive industry makes an improvement which reduces its cost, it is assumed that it will reduce its prices accordingly.
The other firms will have to make the improvement themselves or lose the business to the firm which made the improvement.
The pioneering company gains increased business at least for a time, while the consumer receives the benefit of the innovation in the form of lower prices.
But where there is no real price competition as in the steel industry, he just can't apply this theory.
The problem we face today in non-competitive price industries is how to affect an equitable distribution of productivity gains made possible by scientific progress.
Labor claims these gains, it argues that labor is being displaced by technological progress.
Management bases its claims on the need for installation of new and better machinery and equipment, and it argues that greater profits are required for this.
But the consumer has a claim too.
John Cue Public argues that there is no purpose to scientific progress unless it results ultimately in lower prices or better products.
While translating this into the context of the present steel controversy, I believe the consumer should continue to be the principal beneficiary of technological progress.
I believe there is ample room without undue reduction in profits for price reduction and steel, together with a small increase in wages, preferably in the form of an increase in pensions, which would give greater time to enjoy life to the older workers and greater opportunity to the younger ones.
Until this problem is faced with a nation and by all divisions of our government, I am afraid the wage-price spiral will keep spinning higher and higher, and the value of John Cue Public's dollar will plunge lower and lower, but I hope this is not going to be the case.
Thank you until next week at this time.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, without a doubt the most important development in Washington and in the world is the decision of President Eisenhower in Premier Nikita Kruciak to exchange visits in September and this fall.
When this was announced that precipitated a flood of speculation all the way from full approval of the idea to outright opposition and indignation, some feel that this country is letting down the people of the free nations who have sided with us against the threat of communism.
Some other people argue that people in the captive nations behind the Iron Curtain will feel that they have been abandoned and forgotten about with this new show of friendship.
There is also concern that some incident might happen to Mr. Kruciak when he was here that would make tensions worse rather than easing them.
We are all fully aware of these viewpoints, but I have faith in the sound, common sense, and judgment of our people.
I do not think that Mr. Kruciak's visit to this country will pull the eyes over any of our people.
I do think that this is a chance to show Mr. Kruciak the prosperity and the strength of America and that it might give him a second to so bring thought that he is laboring under any idea about our material strength or our spiritual stamina.
I think that people of all nations of the world are acutely concerned with a nuclear threat that hangs over our heads.
Our nation will spend more than $40 billion this year for missiles, for defense, for powder and for guns.
We simply cannot go on with this kind of military expenditure.
We would like to use some of this money for other and good social things, hospitals, schools, and things that our people need.
The Cold War requires Russia to divert tremendous outlays from its economic development into support of its large military commitments.
The vision of destruction and death that a nuclear attack and counterattack would mean is a sober and terrifying one.
The cold hard fact is that there is no alternative to peace, and this becomes more an indescapable conclusion every day.
Any avenue that can turn Premier Kruciak and the world away from a deadly march toward war is an avenue that we must and that we ought to explore.
His visit to the United States and President Eisenhower's visit to the Soviet Union is maybe one of these ways to turn the thoughts of the people of the world to other avenues and is one that ought to be explored.
You will note that the President intends to visit with the leaders of Western Europe before he goes to Moscow.
And I think this is good. They naturally have a great many anxieties that some agreement might be made that would bind them, if they were not advised of.
And of course any major policy decision must be made in conjunction with our loyal allies of the West.
After all this is a new course for the United States and for the world, and it should be explained to our allies and to the friends that we have in the non-committed nations of the world before in this step is taken.
And no great settlement I don't think is going to come from the exchange of visits of President Eisenhower and Mr. Kruciak.
Such cannot result in independent action without the participation of our allies.
But if nothing more results than the easing of tension and the relaxation of difficulties generated over the Berlin crisis, certainly we can say that some progress has been made.
As long as we are talking, we are not fighting and we are not dying.
And so I welcome the opportunity our people now have of showing Mr. Kruciak our wonderful country and what we have here in the United States.
And I have suggested to the President that Mr. Kruciak's list of American visits include the Tennessee Valley Authority region, where he will see a fine example of democracy and action and I know personally that he is interested.
Also that he goes to Nashville and see the state capital and here the Grand Ole Opry and visit the Permitage. That's all for now. Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, there's good news from Washington today and also a little of the other variety.
On the bright side, the Tennessee Valley Authority won the right to self finance some long needed new generating facilities.
The victory came after a lengthy legislative battle between friends of TBA and its private power enemies.
The self-financing bill, as you know, was approved last month by both the House and the Senate.
It then was sent to President Eisenhower for his approval or veto.
Many persons predicted the President would veto the bill, but the President finally agreed to sign the measure on the assurance of congressional leaders that a clarifying amendment on executive authority would be passed.
It was a great day for the Valley when the bill was signed into the law and I might add a great day for all members of Congress from Tennessee and other states who have worked so diligently for its passage.
Under the new statute, the TBA Board has a media authority to issue up to $750 million worth of revenue bonds for expansion purposes.
Why is that so important? Let me take a moment to explain.
History is steep with tragic examples of national decline because of soil, forest, or water misuse.
The great Tennessee Valley might have become another tragic example, if the TBA had not been created in 1953.
Prior to the TBA, the great rivers of the Valley were languid in one season, but wild and destructive in another.
In those days, the soils of the Valley were severely depleted. The average income of our people was only 44% of the national average.
It's mattering of industry was just about all we had. Prior to the TBA, only 3% of our rural homes were electrified.
Indeed, the Valley, 25 years ago, presented a fairly typical picture of an economically underdeveloped area.
I need not explain to you the benefits of TBA. Our farms are now electrified up to 97%. Farm living knives is modern as urban living.
Farm incomes have increased through the use of our TBA electrical service.
Our industrial program in Tennessee has moved briskly ahead because we have ample, low cost power.
At the same time, the TBA has opened up great recreational areas. Our state has become a major tourist attraction.
Nevertheless, officials of the TBA for the past several years are warned of a possible powered shortage, as more and more electricity was demanded for our whole man for industry.
They pointed out that more generating facilities would be required soon. Our progress in the Valley would be severely restricted.
Electricity cannot be stockpiled like most products. It is, you can't stack cans of electricity in a warehouse like bales of cotton or sacks of sugar.
Electricity has to flow from distribution areas immediately to the farm or the home or the industry.
Quite obviously there must be an ample generating capacity or someone somewhere along the electric land will not get what he wants.
More than that, it takes about three years to build a new generating steam plant.
So, TBA asked the Congress for authority to borrow money. This money, accidentally, will be repaid by the TBA with interest, just the same as if a businessman goes down the street and borrow money from his local bank.
In other words, the government is not at one cent. Neither is the taxpayer. Loans will be repaid by TBA from revenues collected from the sale of electricity.
Immediately after TBA asked Congress for authority to borrow money, enemies of the TBA tried to slam the door in its face.
They were successful in delaying the passage of the self-financing bill last year. When it passed the site, it was pigeonholed in the house.
But finally, we made it. And TBA cannot take steps to expand its power generating facilities for the betterment of both home, farm and industry.
While friends on the dim side, I must report that necessary monies for the proposed melt and hill and cartage dams will have to await the next session of Congress.
These projects are number one on my list of must appropriations in the 1960s session.
As a member of the Senate Appropriations Committee, I was instrumental in pushing through a million 250,000 dollar appropriation for preliminary work on these two dams.
This appropriation was backed off, however, when in conference for the House of Representatives. We did our best.
It's now hope that indeed my conviction that next year we'll mark the start of these projects. You may be assured of my continued effort.
Thank you very much and until next week.
Ladies and gentlemen, Friends of Tennessee, I want to discuss an unpleasant problem with you today.
On my frequent trips to Tennessee recently, many parents have expressed a growing alarm over efforts that are being made to expose our children to a flood of filthy, obscene material.
Those who spread this viral material among our young people are without question, the lowest drags of society.
But we cannot turn our backs on them and hope that they will go away.
While some progress has been made in the battle against these smut peddlers, but the war is far from being won.
Lude material is still being sent into millions of American homes despite all the local law enforcement agencies, the post office department and the department of justice have been able to do it.
It has been reliably estimated that the smut peddling business is in excess of one half billion, yes, one half billion dollars a year.
Last year after a lengthy effort, we succeeded in amending the law to make it possible for the department of justice to prosecute pornography, not only in the district where the material is mailed, but also in districts through which the material passes and the district into which it is mailed.
Only last week I went down and discussed this problem with Postmaster General Arthur Summerfield, and he informed me that several convictions have recently been obtained under the new law.
He believes that the diligent use of the new law will result in the successful prosecution of many more of these smut peddlers.
In spite of this progress, however, he believes and I believe that there are certain other changes which can be made in the law which will further strengthen the hand to those who are attempting to close the mails to obscene material.
For this in view, I introduced just a few days ago a bill to strengthen the criminal penalties for the mailing, importation and transportation of obscene matter.
A substantial number of senators have joined as co-sponsors of this bill, including Senator Eastland of Mississippi, Johnson of South Carolina, Church of Idaho, Senator McNamara, Michigan, and Talmadge of Georgia to mention just a few.
The first of the changes in our bill deals with the law and punishment. Most people who deal in pornography are fly by nighters. Usually they receive only light fans, then they change addresses and change their name sometime and go right back into the same old filthy business.
These most despicable members of our society deal in dirt, not for dirt's sake, but for money's sake. The only way to curb their activity is to see to it that they are put behind bars if they continue in this low and illegal kind of business.
If for no other reason they will be curbed because the parents of America both organized and unorganized demanded.
While mandatory deal sentences on first convictions might seem so harsh that courts and juries would not convict them sometime, I do believe the deal sentences on second offenses would make a person think a long time before continuing in this filthy business if he knows that he is heading for a long deal sentence.
I believe this two time loser provision in our bill under title one would go a long way toward discouraging the number of regular repeaters in this filthy business.
Title two of our bill incorporates several changes suggested by the postmaster general and the provisions authorizing the temporary impounding of certain mail to bring about the closing of the mails to obscene to obscene matter.
Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that this is a very important bill, one of the most important that I have introduced in a long time.
As I have said these peddlers of filth must be and shall be curred. In addition to the demand of our parents, virtually every religious civil civic and paternal group in the country is on record in favor of stricter laws against the evil dissemination of hardcore pornography.
We have set prompt hearings on this bill and hope to have testimony next week by postmaster general summary feel and several leading churchmen.
It is true that this subject is the most unpleasant one but it must be dealt with and now is the time to do it.
And I think that the public will back and the congress will certainly pass this bill by almost a unanimous vote. Thank you very much.